p5.js has a couple of functions that help us
easily draw some primitive shapes. The most
simple one is the so-called "point" and therefore
we have the "point" command and inside the "point"
command, we need to provide two parameters we
need to provide the X value and the Y value, where
our "point" should be positioned in our coordinate
system. In this case i will just say 100/100.
Now we see a small black dot here. And the
point command is a little bit weird, because
you would probably think, that you would get
something like a circle, with a width and a
height, but instead the point is more like a one
pixel wide line. So in order to increase the size
of our point, we need to increase the
strokeWeight ,which i will show you
in the next video. As an extension of the
point, we can also draw a proper line.
For a line, it works the same. We need to
provide coordinates, in this case we need
to provide a start- and an end-coordinate.
We start with the x and y-coordinate where
our line should start and then the coordinates
where our line should end. And if we save this,
we now have a line drawn here. Now the bit
more complex shapes. We will start with the
ellipse. The "ellipse" is something that allows us
to draw a proper circle or ellipse. Again we start
with the x and the y value, where our ellipse
or circle should be positioned on our canvas.
And then we can provide additional parameters
for the width and the height of our ellipse.
And now we have a circle. So of course if you want
to draw a circle, it's a little bit redundant,
to provide width and height, which is the same
in this case. To make this more efficient,
we have also a circle function, which needs
obviously an x and y parameter, to know where
to position a circle, but then we only need one
parameter to define the diameter of our circle.
Very important: two things about circle
and ellipse. First off, the x and the y
coordinate define the center of a circle not the
upper left corner, like for the rectangle. This
is very important, this is the default mode
for ellipse and circle drawing. In addition,
the radius and width and height we defined, are
actually not the radius but the diameter, so
they are the distance from the left side of
the circle to the right side of the circle,
not from the center to the circle. It's not the
radius, but the diameter of our ellipse or circle.
Next up, obviously we also need a "rectangle"
command, to draw rectangles. Again we start
with the x and the y parameter and then we can
define the width and the height of our rectangle.
And there we have a rectangle. Similar to the
circle command, there's also a square command,
which makes it easier to write squares. In
this case we only need to provide one parameter
and we get a little square. There's a couple
more simple shapes, but this should be it for now
and you can explore more shapes in the reference.
And we will start working with those
simple shapes in the beginning.